website/docs/about/introduction.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: introduction
slug: /
hide_table_of_contents: true
title: Introduction
keywords:
  [Switchboard, web3, oracle, data feeds, vrf, randomness, solana, aptos, near]
---

import RoundedCardGroup from "/src/components/RoundedCard/RoundedCardGroup";
import { RustIcon } from "/src/components/icons/RustIcon";
import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";
import { Box, Container } from "@mui/system";

Switchboard is a multi-chain, permissionless oracle protocol for general purpose
data feeds and verifiable random function (VRF).

Switchboard gets its name from the early days of phone networks, where operators
would shuffle telephone lines around a 'switchboard' to complete a circuit and
forward a dialer’s call to the next hop in the circuit. Similarly, Switchboard,
our oracle network is responsible for how external data gets updated and routed
through a blockchain until it reaches its appropriate destination.

<hr />

<RoundedCardGroup
  cols={2}
  sx={{
    border: "1px solid var(--ifm-color-primary-dark)",
    boxShadow: "2px 2px 5px var(--ifm-color-primary-dark)",
    borderRadius: "10px",
  }}
  items={[
    {
      to: "/network",
      title: "Learn",
      description:
        "Learn about Switchboard and how it enables the community to dictate what data lives on-chain.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/design/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/design/dark.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "/publisher",
      title: "Publisher",
      description:
        "Learn how to use the Publisher to bring your own data on-chain.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/publish/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/publish/dark.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "/dev",
      title: "Developer",
      description: "Learn how to integrate Switchboard into your application.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/oracle/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/oracle/dark.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "/operator",
      title: "Operator",
      description:
        "Learn how to contribute to the network and process data feed updates.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/oracle/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/oracle/dark.svg")} />,
    },
  ]}
/>

<hr />

<RoundedCardGroup
  cols={3}
  sx={{
    border: "1px solid var(--ifm-color-primary-dark)",
    boxShadow: "2px 2px 5px var(--ifm-color-primary-dark)",
    borderRadius: "10px",
  }}
  items={[
    {
      to: "/solana",
      title: "Solana",
      description: "Integrate Switchboard on Solana.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/solana/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/solana/dark.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "/aptos",
      title: "Aptos",
      description: "Integrate Switchboard on Aptos.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/aptos/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/aptos/dark.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "/near",
      title: "Near",
      description: "Integrate Switchboard on Near.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/near/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/near/dark.svg")} />,
    },
  ]}
/>

<hr />

## What is an Oracle?

Blockchains do not have the capability of directly relaying information from
off-chain to on-chain. Hence, enter oracles, a gateway between blockchain and
real world data.

An oracle is not the data source, it is an infrastructure layer for querying,
verifying and authenticating external data sources; which is relayed to the
blockchain for a smart contract to read and carry out necessary course of action
for its intended product.

<hr />

## What makes Switchboard different?

Switchboard is permissionless. From a developer's perspective, you customize,
build and manage your own data feeds where all of which can be done from
Switchboard's [Publisher](https://app.switchboard.xyz).

> No friction, no contact, build permissionlessly.

<hr />

## Use Cases

With the power of off-chain data being brought on-chain, Switchboard has plugged
into mulitple verticals to build blockchain based applications today, such as:

- Determining the current price of an asset for collateralized lending
- Determining the state of a tracking number to auto settle funds on arrival
- Determining the current standings of the MLB for fantasy sports rankings

_Find out more use cases and integrations
[here](/faq#use-cases-and-integrations)_

> We are only scraping the surface of blockchain technology and we're excited to
> see the future use cases  
> plugged in by Switchboard!

Commit message:

added coredao and starknet doc scaffolding

website/docs/about/introduction.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: introduction
slug: /
hide_table_of_contents: true
title: Introduction
keywords:
  [Switchboard, web3, oracle, data feeds, vrf, randomness, solana, aptos, near]
---

import RoundedCardGroup from "/src/components/RoundedCard/RoundedCardGroup";
import { RustIcon } from "/src/components/icons/RustIcon";
import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";
import { Box, Container } from "@mui/system";

Switchboard is a multi-chain, permissionless oracle protocol for general purpose
data feeds and verifiable random function (VRF).

Switchboard gets its name from the early days of phone networks, where operators
would shuffle telephone lines around a 'switchboard' to complete a circuit and
forward a dialer’s call to the next hop in the circuit. Similarly, Switchboard,
our oracle network is responsible for how external data gets updated and routed
through a blockchain until it reaches its appropriate destination.

<hr />

<RoundedCardGroup
  cols={2}
  sx={{
    border: "1px solid var(--ifm-color-primary-dark)",
    boxShadow: "2px 2px 5px var(--ifm-color-primary-dark)",
    borderRadius: "10px",
  }}
  items={[
    {
      to: "/network",
      title: "Learn",
      description:
        "Learn about Switchboard and how it enables the community to dictate what data lives on-chain.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/design/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/design/dark.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "/publisher",
      title: "Publisher",
      description:
        "Learn how to use the Publisher to bring your own data on-chain.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/publish/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/publish/dark.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "/dev",
      title: "Developer",
      description: "Learn how to integrate Switchboard into your application.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/oracle/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/oracle/dark.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "/operator",
      title: "Operator",
      description:
        "Learn how to contribute to the network and process data feed updates.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/oracle/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/oracle/dark.svg")} />,
    },
  ]}
/>

<hr />

<RoundedCardGroup
  cols={3}
  sx={{
    border: "1px solid var(--ifm-color-primary-dark)",
    boxShadow: "2px 2px 5px var(--ifm-color-primary-dark)",
    borderRadius: "10px",
  }}
  items={[
    {
      to: "/aptos",
      title: "Aptos",
      description: "Integrate Switchboard on Aptos.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/aptos/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/aptos/dark.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "/coredao",
      title: "CoreDAO",
      description: "Integrate Switchboard on CoreDAO.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/coredao/logo.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/coredao/logo.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "/near",
      title: "Near",
      description: "Integrate Switchboard on Near.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/near/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/near/dark.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "/solana",
      title: "Solana",
      description: "Integrate Switchboard on Solana.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/solana/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/solana/logo.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "/starknet",
      title: "StarkNet",
      description: "Integrate Switchboard on StarkNet.",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/starknet/teal.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/starknet/dark.svg")} />,
    },
  ]}
/>

<hr />

## What is an Oracle?

Blockchains do not have the capability of directly relaying information from
off-chain to on-chain. Hence, enter oracles, a gateway between blockchain and
real world data.

An oracle is not the data source, it is an infrastructure layer for querying,
verifying and authenticating external data sources; which is relayed to the
blockchain for a smart contract to read and carry out necessary course of action
for its intended product.

<hr />

## What makes Switchboard different?

Switchboard is permissionless. From a developer's perspective, you customize,
build and manage your own data feeds where all of which can be done from
Switchboard's [Publisher](https://app.switchboard.xyz).

> No friction, no contact, build permissionlessly.

<hr />

## Use Cases

With the power of off-chain data being brought on-chain, Switchboard has plugged
into mulitple verticals to build blockchain based applications today, such as:

- Determining the current price of an asset for collateralized lending
- Determining the state of a tracking number to auto settle funds on arrival
- Determining the current standings of the MLB for fantasy sports rankings

_Find out more use cases and integrations
[here](/faq#use-cases-and-integrations)_

> We are only scraping the surface of blockchain technology and we're excited to
> see the future use cases  
> plugged in by Switchboard!
