website/docs/800-node-operator/10-getting-started.mdx, before:

---
slug: ./getting-started
title: Getting Started
keywords: [Solana, Solana SDK, Oracles, Web3, Off-chain, Randomness]
---

# Guide to Create a K8s Cluster & Install K8s SGX Plugin

This guide will walk you through the process of using `k3sup` 
to create a Kubernetes cluster on a virtual machine with SGX 
enabled, and then install the Kubernetes SGX plugin.

### Prerequisites

* A machine with SGX enabled with kernel version >=6.0
* Helm cli installed on user machine

If you are using a debian based distro, you can install the 
SGX packages like this:

```bash
echo "deb https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx_repo/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/intel-sgx.list >/dev/null
curl -sSL "https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx_repo/ubuntu/intel-sgx-deb.key" | sudo -E apt-key add -
sudo apt update
sudo apt install sgx-aesm-service libsgx-aesm-launch-plugin libsgx-aesm-quote-ex-plugin libsgx-aesm-ecdsa-plugin libsgx-aesm-epid-plugin libsgx-dcap-quote-verify
```

### Step 1: Create a Kubernetes Cluster

If you want to create a kubernetes cluster consisting of a 
single node, k3s is the best option. `k3sup` is the easisest 
way to set up such a cluster. You can install this cli tool 
by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
curl -sLS https://get.k3sup.dev | sh
```

Then move `k3sup` to your `/usr/local/bin/`:

```bash
sudo install k3sup /usr/local/bin/
```

Finally, set up a machine that you have ssh access to and 
change to that context in kubectl

```
k3sup install --ip $MY_MACHINE_IP --user root --context k3s-devnet
kubectl config use-context k3s-devnet
```

For more advanced configuration, please refer to the 
documentation at [https://github.com/alexellis/k3sup](https://github.com/alexellis/k3sup) 
for more details on how to set up your cluster.


### Step 2: Install the Kubernetes SGX Plugin

Before installing the SGX plugin, check the latest 
version (ex: v0.28.0) at [https://github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/tags](https://github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/tags). 
Then replace the version number in the below URLs accordingly:

```bash
kubectl apply -k 'https://github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/deployments/nfd/?ref=v0.28.0'
kubectl apply -k 'https://github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/deployments/nfd/overlays/node-feature-rules?ref=v0.28.0'
kubectl apply -k 'https://github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/deployments/operator/default?ref=v0.28.0'
kubectl apply -f 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/v0.28.0/deployments/operator/samples/deviceplugin_v1_sgxdeviceplugin.yaml'
```

### Step 3: Install supporting applications

While an ingress controller (traefik) is automatically 
installed as part of setting up a k3s cluster, you may 
also want to set up prometheus or vmetrics to scrape 
metrics from the oracles, secrets management like 
infisical, or a log aggregator like loki.

```bash
helm repo add vm https://victoriametrics.github.io/helm-charts/
helm upgrade -i vmsingle vm/victoria-metrics-single -f vmetrics-values.yaml

helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
helm upgrade -i grafana grafana/grafana -f grafana-values.yaml

helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
helm install \
  cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager \
  --namespace cert-manager \
  --create-namespace \
  --version v1.12.3 \
  --set installCRDs=true \
  --set global.leaderElection.namespace=cert-manager
  
helm repo add infisical-helm-charts 'https://dl.cloudsmith.io/public/infisical/helm-charts/helm/charts/' 
helm install secrets-operator infisical-helm-charts/secrets-operator
```

### Step 4: Install Switchboard Oracle

Follow the instructions in the Switchboard Oracle 
repository for how to install it to your cluster.

```bash
helm upgrade -i switchboard-oracle ./charts/switchboard-oracle -f $HELM_VALUES_YAML
```

Commit message:

add more instructions for configuring metrics/logs inggresses

website/docs/800-node-operator/10-getting-started.mdx, after:

---
slug: ./getting-started
title: Getting Started
keywords: [Solana, Solana SDK, Oracles, Web3, Off-chain, Randomness]
---

# Guide to Create a K8s Cluster & Install K8s SGX Plugin

This guide will walk you through the process of using `k3sup` 
to create a Kubernetes cluster on a virtual machine with SGX 
enabled, and then install the Kubernetes SGX plugin.

### Prerequisites

* A machine with SGX enabled with kernel version >=6.0
* Helm cli and a copy of the switchboard infra-external repo installed on user machine

If you are using a debian based distro, you can install the 
SGX packages like this:

```bash
echo "deb https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx_repo/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/intel-sgx.list >/dev/null
curl -sSL "https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx_repo/ubuntu/intel-sgx-deb.key" | sudo -E apt-key add -
sudo apt update
sudo apt install sgx-aesm-service libsgx-aesm-launch-plugin libsgx-aesm-quote-ex-plugin libsgx-aesm-ecdsa-plugin libsgx-aesm-epid-plugin libsgx-dcap-quote-verify
```
You can clone the infra-external repo like so

```bash
git clone https://github.com/switchboard-xyz/infra-external.git
```
### Step 1: Create a Kubernetes Cluster

If you want to create a kubernetes cluster consisting of a 
single node, k3s is the best option. `k3sup` is the easisest 
way to set up such a cluster. You can install this cli tool 
by running the following command in your terminal:

```bash
curl -sLS https://get.k3sup.dev | sh
```

Then move `k3sup` to your `/usr/local/bin/`:

```bash
sudo install k3sup /usr/local/bin/
```

Finally, set up a machine that you have ssh access to and 
change to that context in kubectl

```
k3sup install --ip $MY_MACHINE_IP --user root --context k3s-devnet
kubectl config use-context k3s-devnet
```

For more advanced configuration, please refer to the 
documentation at [https://github.com/alexellis/k3sup](https://github.com/alexellis/k3sup) 
for more details on how to set up your cluster.


### Step 2: Install the Kubernetes SGX Plugin

Before installing the SGX plugin, check the latest 
version (ex: v0.28.0) at [https://github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/tags](https://github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/tags). 
Then replace the version number in the below URLs accordingly:

```bash
kubectl apply -k 'https://github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/deployments/nfd/?ref=v0.28.0'
kubectl apply -k 'https://github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/deployments/nfd/overlays/node-feature-rules?ref=v0.28.0'
kubectl apply -k 'https://github.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/deployments/operator/default?ref=v0.28.0'
kubectl apply -f 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intel/intel-device-plugins-for-kubernetes/v0.28.0/deployments/operator/samples/deviceplugin_v1_sgxdeviceplugin.yaml'
```

### Step 3: Install supporting applications

While an ingress controller (traefik) is automatically 
installed as part of setting up a k3s cluster, you may 
also want to set up prometheus or vmetrics to scrape 
metrics from the oracles, secrets management like 
infisical, or a log aggregator like loki.

Exposing metrics and logs are strongly encouraged for all oracle operators. To do so, first you must register a domain/subdomain to use for your metrics and logs endpoints respectively. If you are using k3s, then you can find the publicip address by running this command:

```bash
kubectl -n kube-system get svc traefik
```

If you are using a different kubernetes distribution and/or ingress controller, you can find that wit this command:

```bash
kubectl get svc --all-namespaces
```
Once you have the domains registered, go to infra-external/infra-apps/ and configure cert-manager-issuer.yaml with your account information that you've set up by following the cert-manager documentation. Then configure vmetrics-values.yaml and loki-values.yaml with those respective domains. After that, you can deploy as follows: 

```bash
helm repo add vm https://victoriametrics.github.io/helm-charts/
helm upgrade -i vmsingle vm/victoria-metrics-single -f vmetrics-values.yaml

helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
helm upgrade -i grafana grafana/grafana -f grafana-values.yaml

helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
helm install \
  cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager \
  --namespace cert-manager \
  --create-namespace \
  --version v1.12.3 \
  --set installCRDs=true \
  --set global.leaderElection.namespace=cert-manager
  
helm repo add infisical-helm-charts 'https://dl.cloudsmith.io/public/infisical/helm-charts/helm/charts/' 
helm install secrets-operator infisical-helm-charts/secrets-operator
```

### Step 4: Install Switchboard Oracle

Follow the instructions in the Switchboard Oracle 
repository for how to install it to your cluster.

```bash
helm upgrade -i switchboard-oracle ./charts/switchboard-oracle -f $HELM_VALUES_YAML
```
