website/docs/solana/dev/javascript/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 20
title: Javascript
slug: .
---

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/--181717?logo=github&logoColor=ffffff)](https://github.com/switchboard-xyz/solana.js/tree/main/libraries/ts)&nbsp;&nbsp;
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@switchboard-xyz/solana.js)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@switchboard-xyz/solana.js)&nbsp;&nbsp;
[![twitter](https://badgen.net/twitter/follow/switchboardxyz)](https://twitter.com/switchboardxyz)&nbsp;&nbsp;

A library of utility functions to interact with the Switchboardv2 program

## Quick Links

import RoundedCardGroup from "/src/components/RoundedCard/RoundedCardGroup";
import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";

<RoundedCardGroup
  cols={2}
  items={[
    {
      to: "https://github.com/switchboard-xyz/sbv2-solana/tree/main/javascript/solana.js",
      title: "Github",
      description: "View the Github repo",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/github/light.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/github/dark.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "https://docs.switchboard.xyz/api/@switchboard-xyz/solana.js/",
      title: "Typedocs",
      description: "View the Typedocs",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/typedoc/logo.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/typedoc/logo.svg")} />,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Install

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @switchboard-xyz/solana.js
```

## Usage

### Load the Switchboard Program

```ts
import { Connection } from "@solana/web3.js";
import {
  SwitchboardProgram,
  TransactionObject,
} from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const program = await SwitchboardProgram.load(
  "mainnet-beta",
  new Connection("https://api.mainnet-beta.solana.com"),
  payerKeypair /** Optional, READ-ONLY if not provided */
);
```

### Create a queue

```ts
import { QueueAccount } from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const [queueAccount, txnSignature] = await QueueAccount.create(program, {
  name: "My Queue",
  metadata: "Top Secret",
  queueSize: 100,
  reward: 0.00001337,
  minStake: 10,
  oracleTimeout: 60,
  slashingEnabled: false,
  unpermissionedFeeds: true,
  unpermissionedVrf: true,
  enableBufferRelayers: false,
});
const queue = await queueAccount.loadData();
```

### Add an oracle

```ts
import { QueueAccount } from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const queueAccount = new QueueAccount(program, queuePubkey);

const [oracleAccount, oracleInitSignature] = await queueAccount.createOracle({
  name: "My Oracle",
  metadata: "Oracle #1",
  stakeAmount: 10,
});
const oracle = await oracleAccount.loadData();

await oracleAccount.heartbeat();
```

### Add a data feed

```ts
import { QueueAccount } from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const queueAccount = new QueueAccount(program, queuePubkey);

const [aggregatorAccount, aggregatorInitSignatures] =
  await queueAccount.createFeed({
    batchSize: 1,
    minRequiredOracleResults: 1,
    minRequiredJobResults: 1,
    minUpdateDelaySeconds: 60,
    fundAmount: 2.5, // deposit 2.5 wSOL into the leaseAccount escrow
    jobs: [
      { pubkey: jobAccount.publicKey },
      {
        weight: 2,
        data: OracleJob.encodeDelimited(
          OracleJob.fromObject({
            tasks: [
              {
                valueTask: {
                  value: 1,
                },
              },
            ],
          })
        ).finish(),
      },
    ],
  });
const aggregator = await aggregatorAccount.loadData();
```

### Update a Data Feed

```ts
import { AggregatorAccount } from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const aggregatorAccount = new AggregatorAccount(program, aggregatorPubkey);

await aggregatorAccount.openRound();
```

### Read a Data Feed

```ts
import Big from "big.js";
import { AggregatorAccount } from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const aggregatorAccount = new AggregatorAccount(program, aggregatorPubkey);

const result: Big | null = await aggregatorAccount.fetchLatestValue();
if (result === null) {
  throw new Error("Aggregator holds no value");
}
console.log(result.toString());
```

### History Buffer

Optionally, add a history buffer to your feed to store the last N historical
samples

```ts
import {
  AggregatorAccount,
  AggregatorHistoryBuffer,
} from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const aggregatorAccount = new AggregatorAccount(program, aggregatorPubkey);
const aggregator = await aggregatorAccount.loadData();

const [historyBuffer, addHistorySignature] =
  await AggregatorHistoryBuffer.create(program, {
    aggregatorAccount,
    maxSamples: 10000,
  });
const history = await historyBuffer.loadData();
```

### Watch Switchboard

Setup a websocket listener to invoke a callback whenever an aggregator is
updated

```ts
import Big from "big.js";
import { AggregatorAccount } from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const aggregatorAccount = new AggregatorAccount(program, aggregatorPubkey);

const ws = aggregatorAccount.onChange((aggregator) => {
  const result = AggregatorAccount.decodeLatestValue(aggregator);
  if (result !== null) {
    console.log(result.toString());
  }
});
```

Commit message:

docs: updated solana js docs

website/docs/solana/dev/javascript/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 20
title: Javascript
slug: .
---

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/--181717?logo=github&logoColor=ffffff)](https://github.com/switchboard-xyz/solana.js/tree/main/libraries/ts)&nbsp;&nbsp;
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@switchboard-xyz/solana.js)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@switchboard-xyz/solana.js)&nbsp;&nbsp;
[![twitter](https://badgen.net/twitter/follow/switchboardxyz)](https://twitter.com/switchboardxyz)&nbsp;&nbsp;

A library of utility functions to interact with the Switchboardv2 program

## Quick Links

import RoundedCardGroup from "/src/components/RoundedCard/RoundedCardGroup";
import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";

<RoundedCardGroup
  cols={2}
  items={[
    {
      to: "https://github.com/switchboard-xyz/sbv2-solana/tree/main/javascript/solana.js",
      title: "Github",
      description: "View the Github repo",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/github/light.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/github/dark.svg")} />,
    },
    {
      to: "https://docs.switchboard.xyz/api/@switchboard-xyz/solana.js/",
      title: "Typedocs",
      description: "View the Typedocs",
      image: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/typedoc/logo.svg")} />,
      imageDark: <img src={useBaseUrl("/img/icons/typedoc/logo.svg")} />,
    },
  ]}
/>

## Install

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @switchboard-xyz/solana.js
```

## Usage

Check out the
[@switchboard-xyz/solana.js test directory](https://github.com/switchboard-xyz/sbv2-solana/tree/main/javascript/solana.js/test)
for more examples.

### Load the Switchboard Program

```ts
import { Connection } from "@solana/web3.js";
import {
  SwitchboardProgram,
  TransactionObject,
} from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const program = await SwitchboardProgram.load(
  "mainnet-beta",
  new Connection("https://api.mainnet-beta.solana.com"),
  payerKeypair /** Optional, READ-ONLY if not provided */
);
```

### Create a queue

```ts
import { QueueAccount } from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const [queueAccount, txnSignature] = await QueueAccount.create(program, {
  name: "My Queue",
  metadata: "Top Secret",
  queueSize: 100,
  reward: 0.00001337,
  minStake: 10,
  oracleTimeout: 60,
  slashingEnabled: false,
  unpermissionedFeeds: true,
  unpermissionedVrf: true,
  enableBufferRelayers: false,
});
const queue = await queueAccount.loadData();
```

### Add an oracle

```ts
import { QueueAccount } from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const queueAccount = new QueueAccount(program, queuePubkey);

const [oracleAccount, oracleInitSignature] = await queueAccount.createOracle({
  name: "My Oracle",
  metadata: "Oracle #1",
  stakeAmount: 10,
});
const oracle = await oracleAccount.loadData();

await oracleAccount.heartbeat();
```

### Add a data feed

```ts
import { QueueAccount } from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const queueAccount = new QueueAccount(program, queuePubkey);

const [aggregatorAccount, aggregatorInitSignatures] =
  await queueAccount.createFeed({
    batchSize: 1,
    minRequiredOracleResults: 1,
    minRequiredJobResults: 1,
    minUpdateDelaySeconds: 60,
    fundAmount: 2.5, // deposit 2.5 wSOL into the leaseAccount escrow
    jobs: [
      { pubkey: jobAccount.publicKey },
      {
        weight: 2,
        data: OracleJob.encodeDelimited(
          OracleJob.fromObject({
            tasks: [
              {
                valueTask: {
                  value: 1,
                },
              },
            ],
          })
        ).finish(),
      },
    ],
  });
const aggregator = await aggregatorAccount.loadData();
```

### Update a Data Feed

```ts
import { AggregatorAccount } from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const aggregatorAccount = new AggregatorAccount(program, aggregatorPubkey);

await aggregatorAccount.openRound();
```

### Read a Data Feed

```ts
import Big from "big.js";
import { AggregatorAccount } from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const aggregatorAccount = new AggregatorAccount(program, aggregatorPubkey);

const result: Big | null = await aggregatorAccount.fetchLatestValue();
if (result === null) {
  throw new Error("Aggregator holds no value");
}
console.log(result.toString());
```

### History Buffer

Optionally, add a history buffer to your feed to store the last N historical
samples

```ts
import {
  AggregatorAccount,
  AggregatorHistoryBuffer,
} from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const aggregatorAccount = new AggregatorAccount(program, aggregatorPubkey);
const aggregator = await aggregatorAccount.loadData();

const [historyBuffer, addHistorySignature] =
  await AggregatorHistoryBuffer.create(program, {
    aggregatorAccount,
    maxSamples: 10000,
  });
const history = await historyBuffer.loadData();
```

### Watch Switchboard

Setup a websocket listener to invoke a callback whenever an aggregator is
updated

```ts
import Big from "big.js";
import { AggregatorAccount } from "@switchboard-xyz/solana.js";

const aggregatorAccount = new AggregatorAccount(program, aggregatorPubkey);

const ws = aggregatorAccount.onChange((aggregator) => {
  const result = AggregatorAccount.decodeLatestValue(aggregator);
  if (result !== null) {
    console.log(result.toString());
  }
});
```
